Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to add a bit more detailing to our Bob.
And basically finish off the armature itself so we can rig the rest of the lamp and it's coming along
really nicely.
So let's just hop out and show you around if I go into Poe's mode if I turn on my overlays we've got
a bone here now that's controlling not only the shade itself which we didn't have before but also the
bulb inside and the ball joints as well.
So now we're gonna hop on over straight into a challenge.
Okay.
So what is it we need to do.
Well we need to add the final bone we've got nothing to control the lamp shade at the moment and then
create a simple ball joint connecting the shade to the upper arm.
And then finally parent that lampshade and the ball joint to the new bone.
Of course if you've also made a bulb you'll want to parent that to the bone as well because of the air
now and give that a go Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now hop on over into blender and completes our lamp.
Okay everybody and welcome back.
So we need to put ourselves something here.
And it's going to be something quite simple I'm gonna go for a sphere in that place.
Nice and easy to do and also then we've got our bulb.
And I believe how is still hidden somewhere in this list here.
There we go.
Our bulbs completely in the wrong place.
So let's go ahead.
First of all and shift that up.
So it's roughly in the right place.
Now you see it's locals at Axis is down there so let's make it the global by pressing Z again.
And yeah let's look at it from the front and make sure it is lined up.
So it looks like it's slightly off center at the moment and we can just be precise with it at the moment
and move it on the x axis across.
And that looks good enough that's that that's the key here does need to just look good enough.
It doesn't need to be precise.
We aren't engineering this.
If it was an engineering thing that we were doing then yes we'd have to work a bit closer.
So the next thing that I need to do is add this u v sphere and I'm going to make a little indent for
this bulb to sit in as well.
So I'm going to create it where the bulb is at the moment by going shift and s cursor to selected and
then adding in AUV sphere.
Now that you V3 is obviously going to be massive.
I'm going to hop into edit mode so I don't have to apply any transforms Skelley down to point one.
Yeah that looks good for the moment and rotates it on its x axis.
Oh no it looks like it's going to be it's why it's global.
There we go.
So you do have to watch out for that Global X axis by 90.
And now I can cut some rings out to make the shape I want.
So let's move this back slightly and the global y axis.
There we go to round there.
Now we can scale up to fit the whole and let's see.
Yes it also fits in here quite well.
So that is looking good.
Now at this point it might be a good idea to align everything so that the lamp the ball joint or the
upper arm the ball joint the bulb and this lamp head itself are all in line with one another.
That's something that would make this whole process a lot easier.
We know the rule at 45 degrees it's not too difficult to go ahead and do that.
So I'm going to come out of edit mode on r u v sphere.
I'm going to set that a shade smooth as well and let's go ahead and reveal our armature.
We don't actually have our bone in place yet so I'm going to put my bone in place and then move it up
and set that as a working rest pose for the moment.
So let's go ahead grab our armature grab this bone points here look at it exactly from the side and
extrude out.
Now I'm only going to extrude it on the bones.
Local y axis I think yeah.
Why.
Here we go.
Perfect.
Now I need to do some parenting.
So I'm going to parent the lampshade the ball joints and the bulb all to this bone.
So we go control open select that last.
There we go.
Control pay parent to the bone.
And now hopefully what we can do is impose mode.
Grab this.
Rotate it round.
Excellent.
And we can have everything in line.
So let's look at it from the side rotates by 45.
Perfect.
So now everything is in a line it's going to make modelling a lot lot easier.
Of course when we come out back into object mode it will retain that sort of thing.
We need to set any rest poses for the moment.
If we go into edit mode on our sphere here it should also be in the right orientation.
Yes perfect.
Everything's nicely aligned.
Let's come into here and make ourselves the bulb itself the higher my armature again.
Did I say the bold.
We've already got that.
I mean the bulb holder so to speak.
So when I switched to wireframe mode so I can see what's going on underneath and see if I can select
yes I've managed to select the vertex that I want.
I'm just going to deletes that and come back out from wireframe mode Z key back into solid shading case
and now we can start thinking about these edge loops probably there and there but from I've selected
the wrong age loop.
There we go.
It's gonna delete those vertices as well so we get this nice hollow here.
Then I can grab this and extrude backwards and fill in that face and that'll give me something for this
to hold on to.
I can then inset and extrude outwards again into the bulb.
That's that's a tiny bit of detailing but it's going to make a big bit of difference in the bulb itself
is also shade Smooth.
Let's have a look at how that looks excellent.
So it's just a matter of adding material to this.
I'm going to use the same material the rest of the lamp is made from for the moment just to keep things
consistent.
So I'm going to go to a material slot and add lamps them to it's perfect.
Now this obviously reflects more of the world around it because it is a spherical object whereas these
themselves do not.
So it's worth while bearing in mind there's a bit of inconsistency there between one part of our model
and the other.
But then when we look at it in rendered mode it's not that different.
So I'm quite happy with the fact that this is just how the Look Dev is making this nice smooth rounded
surface look.
Finally I do want to make sure if we go back to our armature and go to pose mode and then start moving
around this ball joint then it looks natural when it intersects with this top part.
And I think that looks absolutely fine.
Yes it's a bit unrealistic.
If you were to focus on that but realism isn't my goal at this point and that is exactly what I wanted
to do.
I wanted to link together quite smoothly.
So there we go.
That's really awesome.
How did you guys get on.
Did you make a little lamp holder like I've done here.
I've got the bulb in place it didn't need to do anything extra there.
I think that's coming along really nicely.
Please share the work you've done over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.